[Autogenerated] alright back in visual studio code.
And remember the files that we committed to the repository came from this
seven dash code cache commit cache File's directory.
So let's expand that out and see what's going on in here.
It's probably most instructive to look at what's in build spec 0.0,
1st, the build spec syntax is pretty well documented by A W S,
and some of it is fairly intuitive.
The things that I want to call out here is we're setting environment
variables within our builds back for terra form to let it know it's in
an automation environment that t f underscore input that tells terra
form Don't prompt me for information.
If you run a command and it needs more info,
just fail the command because it's running an automation,
there's no one there to enter the information.
Setting it to t F in automation also does some other things
in the back end that just lets terra form.
No, you're in an automation environment, so make some assumptions there.
Under phases, we have two phases of our build process.
The first phase is to install terra form.
Now every installation requires a runtime version of some kind.
And even though we're not using Node.js,
we have to install something and Node.js installs really fast.
So I went with Node.js.
These important stuff is under commands.
The first thing we do is going to usr slash been and copy the version of
Terra Form that we want from the releases site for Hashish Corp If we
scroll over and look at this full curl command,
we can, see that we are using the environment.
Variable t f underscore versioning underscore Install to determine what
version of terra form is downloaded from the hash corpse site and that
value is submitted through the build process.
We saw that a moment ago.
Let's scroll back, and the next thing we do is unzip terra form.
And once ______ forms on gzip.
Now we're ready to use ______ form.
Next, we're going to go into the CodeBuild Source directory,
and that's an environment variable that's populated
by a W S that's always available.
And we're gonna modify any scripts that end in dot as h two b executable.
And then we're going to copy Terra form.
Underscore actions dot as H to the U.
S.
Are BIN directory Now we're ready to run our actual
initialization and our plan or are apply.
So let's scroll down to the build phase.
In the build phase, we go back to our source directory.
We run terra form version.
So that's in the build logs.
We can.
See what version was actually being used and then we'll run terra form in it.
And this should seem pretty familiar because we just went over how you
could do a back end config with terra form in it.
We're specifying the bucket that we want to use from our environment variables.
We scroll over some more were specifying the region that we want
to use ________ over a little bit more were specifying the
dynamo db table that we want to use.
It would probably a good idea now to look at what's in RBAC end
config for this terra form configuration.
Let's go ahead and open that and we put in a partial configuration here.
All we have is that the back end is S3 and that the key we want
to use is going to be networking slash terra form .NET TF state
because we're using workspaces.
The workspace name is going to be appended to that key,
so we don't have to worry about conflicting state files in our S3 bucket.
That's what's in the back end.
So everything else we need for that S3 back end is specified
in line as part of the Terra form in it,
Command, let's go back to builds back here.
And the next thing we're gonna do is echo out what action were planning to do.
So from that environment,
variable were probably either planning to do a plan and apply or a destroy.
And that's a way to clean up this environment.
When you're done, there is an option to specify destroy instead of plan or apply.
And then we're gonna run the script.
Terra form actions .NET.
S H.
Let's go ahead and open that up and see what's going on in here.
So this is a bash script,
and the idea here is to either create a workspace
or select an existing workspace.
The first thing the script does is either create a new terra
form workspace or select an existing one.
So it's gonna look at what's in the remote state data,
and if it finds an existing workspace, it'll just use that.
If it doesn't find that workspace, that's going to create it.
So we're running an if statement here where it lists out all the
work spaces and then looks for the workspace name we've submitted
through our environment Variable.
If it doesn't find it in the list of workspaces,
then it will run terra form workspace new and create that new workspace.
If it does find it in the list, then it will run terra form workspace.
Select and select that workspace.
Now that we have our workspace selected,
it checks to see which action we want to perform.
So let's scroll down a little bit and we see that if the action is plan,
then the first thing we need to do is make a directory where we're going
to store our plan so we'll make the directory plans.
Then we'll check again to see if the TF action is plan
and we'll run our terra form plan.
So we're gonna run terra form plan dash out DPC dot t f plan and we're
gonna pipe the output to t f underscore output dot txt.
So we have a record of the output from that plan We may want to
use that to check the plan before we approve it.
And then finally, we're going to copy that TF plan to our S3 state bucket,
and that gives us the opportunity to retrieve that plan file when we
run the apply process because this is in a container.
This is ephemeral.
Once this plan is done, that container is destroyed along with our plan file.
If we don't save it out somewhere, if instead,
the TF action is equal to apply,
we are going to retrieve the plan file from the S3 bucket and then simply
run terra form apply against that plan and pipe that to t f underscore
output so that we have a record of what happened.
And we can look at it if we need to.
Finally, I do have the action destroy.
If you need to clean up from this build process and
you want to remove the environment, you can specify the action as destroy,
and it will run terra form destroy with auto approved and
pipe that to t f underscore output.
So because auto approved is in there,
it's not gonna prompt anyone for whether or not you
want to destroy this environment, it's just going to do it.
So obviously use this portion with some care.
So that's everything that's in the terra form action script
that gets kicked off by the build spec.
If you go back to build spec, the last thing it does is generate an artifact.
So it takes that t f underscore output dot txt file,
and it writes it to our build log S3 buckets so that we
could review it later if we want it.
So finally, we have the terra form main dot T f file.
This is a very simple configuration were creating a VPC
and we're specifying to public sub nets.
If we scroll down to providers,
you'll note that there's no authentication information specified,
and that's because the container is going to assume a
role that has permissions to create.
A VPC and terra form will see that that role has been assumed
and use those credentials for authentication.
Data sources were grabbing our availability zones and then in resources.
We are creating a V P.
C and the VPC will have the name that corresponds to the
workspace were currently in dash VPC and in the tags will set the
environment equal to the workspace value.
And then we will output the VPC IDE.
So that's the entire configuration.
In a nutshell.
Why don't we now look at what's going on with our code pipeline, because that's the last piece of this puzzle.